Tamara Al Rafi is the spokesperson for
the United Nations relief and works
agency unra she joins us from Aman thank
you for being with us on the program
today so unra dismissed nine employees
does the organization have evidence that
those employees were involved indeed in
the October 7th
attack on received Al allegations from
the Israeli government and the
commissioner General OFA deemed that
it's in the interest of the 2 million
people were serving in Gaza and in the
interest of the continuation of our
life-saving and irreplaceable work in
Gaza he deemed it um necessary to
preemptively dismiss these staff members
for the sake of everything else but also
for the sake of due diligence the
commissioner General asked the UN
Secretary General Antonio gutieres to
refer the situation to the highest
investigation Authority at the UN in New
York so we worked on several tracks
together
with the primary goal being the
continuation of our Irreplaceable and
life-saving work in Gaza okay so the
nine employees that were dismissed were
preemptively dismissed to be clear does
that mean you don't or that you do
currently have any evidence in their
alleged involvement in the October 7th
attacks that is correct they were
dismissed upon allegations
preemptively and an investigation is
being open at the headquarters in New
York and these now former employees will
have the right of recourse in case the
findings um are not are are in their
favor I believe there were two employees
who as of the secretary General's
statement on Sunday were still being
identified have they been identified
now not yet no you know we have 13,000
staff in Gaza it takes a very very
complex um review to be able to match
names that we receive from the
government of Israel with names of our
employees but if I may here remind that
un shares the full list of names of its
staff in Gaza and the West Bank
including East Jerusalem with Israel
every year so the list is known the list
of our staff is known to the government
of Israel every year this is interesting
I think it's something our viewers might
not know all the people that unra
employs including the 13,000 staff
members in the Gaza Strip Israel is
aware of who works for
you that is correct we provide the names
of our staff to the host authorities in
the countries that we work in so Jordan
and Lebanon and Syria and we also
provided to the state of Israel um and
here I speak specifically of our
employees in the West Bank including
East Jerusalem and in Gaza and and by
the way do they have a say in in um not
Staffing decisions but when you provide
that list does Israel have any right of
comment on who works for
un the host governments and also the
state of Israel may come back to us with
concerns over staff when they received
the list in the case of our staff in uh
the West Bank including East Jerusalem
and Gaza we have not received concerns
by the state of Israel upon their
receiving of these lists on an annual
basis but I also want to uh reiterate
the sturdy Recruitment and screening
that we do to all our staff to ensure
that we get uh proper recommendations
for them and that their names do not
match names of people listed on the UN
Security Council sanctions list so we
have a thorough and sturdy review before
we recruit anyone what does it say to
you that the biggest donors to this UN
agency have pulled their funding and
that is the majority of the funding that
goes to unoa has now been suspended
based on allegations con concerning
0.04% of your overall
staff well you you got the maths right
and so in response to that uh we are
pleading to our biggest donors who are
also our partners our partners in
ensuring that there's an adequate
humanitarian operation in Gaza we
pleading with them not to to allow the
humanitarian operation towards 2 million
people to collapse unwa has the largest
footprint in Gaza we run the shelters
where more than 1 million people have
sought Refuge we run the um food and
wheat flour distribution towards the
entire population there is no one no
agency no no humanitarian actor that can
replace unwa especially on such short
notice so our position is please help us
continue saving lives in Gaza and
continue providing that level of relief
food medical supplies Medical Services
to an entire population that is now
dependent on humanitarian assistance the
UN Secretary General uh mentioned in his
statement on Sunday that un was not
funded through the end of February what
happens if the funding does not resume
what happens I mean to the Palestinians
that you help specifically the
Palestinians in the Gaza
Strip the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip
but also the the Palestinian refugees
across the region will no longer be able
to get food clean water education
Primary Health Services and much more if
un can cannot sustain its operations
Beyond March it is extremely serious for
the well-being for the rights of
Palestine refugees to critical uh care
but also for regional stability it is
extremely critical that the largest
humanitarian agency continues providing
humanitarian assistance and continues to
contribute to Regional stability in a
volatile environment this is really not
the time to stop funding to un and to
threaten its ability to continue
supporting Millions especially in Gaza
today where the war continues the
displacement continues and the needs are
so acute for us to call that to for us
to warn against
famine I I listen to what you say and
tell me if if these dots can be
connected in this way you told me that
you received that unar was working off
uh is really evidence I believe based on
staff and that's why they were on on the
staff that were pre prely dismissed so
that would mean then
that millions of Palestinians including
2 million ACC quarter of whom are facing
starvation in the Gaza Strip might not
have any help from the biggest aid aid
agency currently operating in the Gaza
Strip based on Israeli evidence that has
not been verified is that
correct that is correct but that does
not diminish how seriously we take these
allegations and how seriously the UN
Secretary General takes them as well
hence his commissioning of an
investigation into the case of these
staff members and hence also un
commissioning an independent expert
review to make sure that our internal
safe guards against the implication the
possible implication of some of our
staff members into Political activities
we are doing all we can to ensure that
our Frameworks are sturdy and working
and that every single staff member of
unra I'm talking here about
33,000 staff member is truly working
according to the UN values and
principles and that is working away from
politics we are extremely serious about
making sure that every one of the 33,000
staff members
Works wholeheartedly exclusively on
humanitarian grounds and so far the 75
years of Ona speak to our ability to
offer humanitarian assistance away from
politics and in a way that has enabled
generations of Palestine refugees to
access critical basic health care reach
all vaccinations educate over 2 million
Palestinian children some of whom work
now at NAA and in
reputable um Laboratories around the
world and reputable businesses and
reputable um um reputable um uh
Enterprises so we do have a lot of
success stories that we want to be able
to continue but more than that if if if
I could jump in there have been in other
cases in other countries around the
world where there is UN un presence
United Nations presence there have been
documented cases of misconduct from un
staff whether it's sexual misconduct
other types of
misconduct in in ways that were very
serious that were documented that were
not allegations and I don't recall that
the funding was suspended for whether it
was peacekeeping operations or
humanitarian operations depending on the
case in the country why do you think in
aoa's case all of a sudden most of your
funding is
pulled that is a question to ask our
donors and that is and and our position
is to ask our donors to continue to
stand by us especially that uh our added
value to the lives of Palestinian
Palestine refugees and to the current
situation in Gaza have long been
documented this current
conflict showed the Irreplaceable role
that erra plays it is our trucks that
bring in the humanitarian assistant it
is our people that distribute wheat
flour and shelters is is our people who
are themselves displaced in shelters
that have been working even though they
themselves are displaced it is our
doctors that continue to give um Medical
Services through mobile clinics in Gaza
if that is not testimony to the hard
work and the success of funa Against All
Odds I don't know what would be
testimony Tamor Al Rafi spokesperson for
erir the United Nations relief and works
Agency for Palestinian refugees in the
East thank you for joining us in the
program thank you